So here we are.
You've pulled back the mask.
You felt the cost of pretending.
You've named the things that make
you feel tight, uneasy off, and more
importantly, you've started to get a
glimpse of what alignment might feel like.
Right?
So now we shift, this
module is about vision.
But not vision in the fluffy
Pinterest board sense, right?
I'm talking about the real thing.
A visceral, embodied, unapologetic
picture of the life that actually fits
you, not the life your parents wanted,
not the life your boss incentivized,
not the life Instagram sold you, your
life, the one that fits like skin, right?
But first I wanna let you in on a secret.
Your subconscious mind literally
cannot process negatives.
If I tell you, don't think of a
purple elephant, what happens?
Exactly right.
This is one of the most important things
you'll ever learn about your mind.
Your subconscious doesn't
move away from pain.
It moves toward pictures, and if you
don't give it a compelling picture
to move toward, guess what happens?
It keeps looping through old images, old
roles, old patterns, old fears, old pain.
And if all your mind has to work with
is I don't wanna feel stuck anymore,
or I don't wanna keep settling,
then your inner GPS is aimless.
You'll circle the same
roundabouts of burnout.
People pleasing, overthinking, self-doubt.
This is why we need to craft
what I call your compelling
vision of the future, your CVF.
Not because it's cute, but because
it's how your brain actually works.
All right, so check this out.
There's this concept from a book called
Psycho-Cybernetics by Dr. Maxwell Maltz.
And in it he said, man is not a
machine, but he functions like one.
Okay?
And according to malt, your subconscious
mind is like a servo mechanism.
Okay.
A self-correcting system like a, a
heat seeking missile or the autopilot
system in a plane, it locks onto
a target and then it adjusts your
behavior, your perception, and even
your self-image to hit that target.
Okay?
But here's the catch.
If your current self-image is based on
who you've been performing as, not who you
truly are, then all of your unconscious
power is being used to reinforce the mask.
You'll keep attracting jobs that drain
you relationships, that make you shrink
outcomes that reflect your old identity.
And it's not because you're lazy, not
because you're broken, but because the
GPS is just set to the wrong destination.
So what do we do, right?
Well, we give the mind a new map.
We give it a vivid, detailed, emotionally
resonant image of what aligned
actually looks like and feels like.
So let's talk biology for a second.
You've got this, uh, thing in your
brainstem called the reticular
activating system, or the RAS.
Its job is to filter out the
overwhelming amount of data your
senses take in every second.
It decides what you notice
and what you ignore.
Okay?
So think of it like a, a nightclub
bouncer for your awareness.
Okay?
Here's the kicker.
The RAS is programmable.
So when you start thinking obsessively
about a new car that you want, right?
Suddenly you see it everywhere.
Yeah.
That's the RAS doing its job.
So imagine what happens when you
start feeding it information that
reflects your aligned life, right?
Your authentic values, what
energizes you, who you really are.
You stop seeing just what's
in front of you and you start
seeing what's for you, right?
Opportunities, people, ideas.
They've been there all along.
You just didn't have the filter tuned.
Now let's talk about what
this vision actually is.
Okay?
It's not a list of goals.
This is not a 10 year plan.
This is not a vision board with
yachts and six packs, right?
This is a vivid sensory image of what
it feels like to live in alignment.
What does your day in your life look like
when you're being honest with yourself?
Right?
What kind of conversations are you having?
What environments are you in?
What do you feel in your body when
you're not betraying yourself?
What do you believe about your worth,
your relationships, your future?
And this is gonna feel weird at first.
Okay?
And that's normal because what we're doing
is rewiring your default sense of self.
And your, your brain is
gonna resist that, okay?
It'll whisper things to you
like, "Who do you think you are?"
"Don't get your hopes up." Right?
"Come on. That's not realistic."
But that is the mask talking, okay?
That's the persona that's afraid to die.
Let it die.
You've already grieved it.
Now you get to replace it.
Okay?
Now there's one more element
to all of this that I want you
to know, and it's language.
How you describe your future changes,
how your brain relates to it.
Okay?
And this is why I wanna be more
confident is weak, but I am a man
or a woman who walks into every room
with grounded confidence and clear
conviction that hits different, right?
The tense of your vision matters.
The detail matters, the emotion matters.
This is not someday.
This is, I am becoming this now.
This is the difference between
hoping for a better life and
embodying it before it arrives.
You're gonna write this vision in the
next exercise, but I want to leave you
with a few key reminders before you do.
Okay?
This isn't about invention.
No, it's about remembrance.
You're not fabricating a new self.
You're excavating the true one.
The version of you that has always existed
under the pretending, right, the one that
lit up when you were a child , the one
that still shows up in brief flashes.
When you're in that flow state, that
version of you has never stopped calling.
Now you're finally ready to
listen, so let that version speak.
As you write, let them guide the vision.
Don't just dream it, feel it.
Taste it.
Hear it.
Okay.
And remember, the subconscious
cannot process a negative, so give
it a vision that's worth chasing.